---
author: tomaja
date: "2006-04-23T09:53:34Z"
excerpt: 'Linspire Inc. je objavio novu verziju svoje Linux distribucije koja uglavnom
  predstavlja update prethodnih verzija ali naravno da su uba?ene i nove stvari. Tu
  pre svega isti?em novi 2.6.14 kernel X.Org 6.9.0, BitTorrent 4.4.0, Gizmo, easy-to-use
  Internet phone aplikaciju, veliki broj mrežnih alata i drajvera za Windows modeme;
  zatim OpenOffice.org 2.0 i veliki broj ispravki  bagova. '
guid: https://forum.linuxo.org/2006/04/23/linspire-5-1-427-5-0-v2/
id: 1127
tc-thumb-fld:
- a:2:{s:9:"_thumb_id";b:0;s:11:"_thumb_type";s:10:"attachment";}
title: Linspire 5.1.427 (5.0 V2)
url: /linspire-5-1-427-5-0-v2/
---
Linspire Inc. je objavio novu verziju svoje Linux distribucije koja uglavnom predstavlja update prethodnih verzija ali naravno da su uba?ene i nove stvari. Tu pre svega isti?em novi 2.6.14 kernel X.Org 6.9.0, BitTorrent 4.4.0, Gizmo, easy-to-use Internet phone aplikaciju, veliki broj mrežnih alata i drajvera za Windows modeme; zatim OpenOffice.org 2.0 i veliki broj ispravki bagova. <!--break-->Koga zanimaju detalji ove nove verzije Linspire-a mogu u nstavku pro?itati Release Notes (en):

Date: 04.24.2006  
Version: 5.1.427 (Linspire 5.0 V2)  
Size: 672 MB  
md5sum: 33b0b804535b1ae2b10177c67f281e2a

This is an update to the 5.0 release. If your hardware and software are  
currently working fine there is no need to update to this newer  
versions. This version contains bug fixes and addresses some issues. If  
you are experiencing these bugs or issues than it may be a good idea  
for you to check out this release. If your system is working correctly  
and you are having no issues then we recommend that you stay with your  
current version.

When you first put the CD into the drive there are 2 options:

1.

Boot from the Live CD  
2.

Install the software  
to your hard drive

It is ALWAYS a good idea to choose the Live CD option first to test  
your hardware. If the Live CD boots and everything on your system is  
working correctly then it is probably safe to complete the full install.

New Features:

*

Network Tools:

* Added feature to the network tools so  
that the control panel will notice new interfaces (PC cards, USB  
devices, etc) shortly after they&#8217;re attached.  
* Pass-phrases can now be used for  
128-bit WEP encryption.  
* Better profile management.  
* Prefer wired connections over wireless  
if auto switch is enabled.  
* New built in VPN manager supports  
OpenVPN, as well as Point-to-Point Tunneling Protocol. (PPTP)  
implementing Point-to-Point Encryption method as PPP  
compressor/decompressor.  
* Automatic profile switching works with  
multiple wired connections.

*

Monitor Detection:

o Faster monitor detection.  
*

How-To Tutorials:

o A few of the HOW-TO Tutorials have been moved from the installed OS  
with addition Tutorials now accessible via CNR.

o Please visit http://www.linspire.com/moretutorials  
*

Gizmo Project  
1.0.0.17

o A free phone for your computer that makes calling as easy as instant  
messaging.  
*

BitTorrent:

o Replaced Ltorrent with BitTorrent 4.4.0.

Hardware Support Improvements:

*

Modems:

o Creatix &#8211; Agere SV92Pl-T00 modem PCI ID: [11c1:048c rev 3] 

o Creatix: Agere CTX607 v.1 modem PCI ID: [ 11c1:048c] 

o Rockwell HCF 56k data/fax modem PCI ID: [127a:1002] 

o Lucent Microelectronics winmodem PCI ID: [11C1:044C] 

o PCTel Inc HSP MicroModem 56 (rev 02) PCI ID: [134d:7897] 

o Intel Corp. 537 PCI ID: [8086:1080], [1106:3086] 

o Intel Corp. 536EP Data Fax Modem PCI ID: [8086:1040] 

o Lucent Microelectronics LT winmodem rev02 PCI ID: [11C1:044E] 

o Smartlink modem PCI ID: [1636:3052] * Linux 2.6.14 Kernel with many updated  
drivers from third parties

o Switch from using obsolete devfs to udev, udev manages the interface  
between the devices and the file system.

o Support for SATA.

o SMP (Dual Core) kernel available via CNR.

* Multiple audio devices are handled  
more gracefully (and one can easily select the default device).  
*

Video:

o Xorg 6.9

o 3-D working on the VIA K8M800.

o Updated commercial ATI (fglrx) drivers to 8.22.

o Improved video mode selection for the i830 driver.

o Updated Unichrome driver for VIA support.

*

Sound:

o ALSA updated to 1.0.9b.

o Improved audio/video synchronization.

*

Wireless:

o Updated Intel Centrino wireless drivers (ipw2100 & ipw2200).

o Updated MadWifi (Atheros) driver.

o Updated ndiswrapper driver

o Updated NDIS drivers.

o Improved wifi resume after hibernation.

* Printing:

o Printing support is improved in this release with the inclusion of  
the hplip utility, which replaces hpijs.

Known Issues Fixed:

*

KDE

o Konqueror

+ Fixed the auto-save code for Konqueror profile settings.

+ Added a new menu entry to save profile on exit.

o KDE Help Center &#65533; The Linspire Quick Start Guide menu has been fixed.

o Fixed the default Linspire theme so if restores properly.  
* Klaptopdaemon

o Allow user to choose different power management strategies

o Automatically switch power management strategy when AC is  
disconnected.

*

Hotplugging

o Better FireWire mass storage support.

o Improved non-root user experience with external storage devices.

o Improved detection of flash media.

o Added eject option to CD menu

*

Mouse Acceleration

o Desktop machines with USB mice should see normal acceleration.

*

Linspire Live

o Allow simple file sharing.

o Drives now automatically detected and mounted.

o Allow computer name to be changed.

o Ability to create users.

* Linspire Update

o Clean up desktop icons.

Core Software Updates:

*

Boot Menu:

o Separate boot menu for resume from hibernation.

o Improved MBR management.

o Support for multiple resume entries in your menu.

o Has an advanced menu with a NODETECT entry &#8211; skips running the  
detector on boot.

o Improved boot label generation &#8211; only adds the partition name and  
kernel version as necessary to distinguish from other entries.

o Boot menu has been updated with the following Rules:

+ The ordering is now computed as follows:

1. The settings in the volume manager take highest precedence.

2. Next, the currently running partition will appear before other  
partitions.

3. Next, the currently running kernel will appear before others on the  
same partition

4. Linux partitions will appear before non-Linux (e.g. MS Windows)  
partitions.

*

Software Suspend  
2.2.rc15

o http://www.suspend2.net/

*

Linspire Internet  
Suite:

o Launching Linspire Internet Suite twice no longer causes the create  
profile dialog to display.

o Opening a large file after attaching it to an email no longer causes  
the mail client to crash.

o Fixed interoperability with sound server.

o Fixed an issue with downloading Gmail POP3 into the mail client.

o Update the mail client to check spelling of the subject line.

o Improved handling of filetypes.  
*

Mplayerplug-in 3.21

o Fixed many crashes.  
*

Mplayer .99  
*

Java 1.5  
*

KPlayer .5.3  
*

Gaim 1.5.0  
*

Xorg 6.9  
*

OpenOffice.org 2.0  
*

CNR 6.0.27  
*

K3b &#65533; 0.12.7 &#8211;  
Better supports for burning to DVDs  
*

Lphoto 1.0.68

o User now has the permission to add a camera.  
*

Lsongs 1.0.b51

o adds support for Apple iPod

o improves support for Dell DJ and many other Creative Nomad-based  
players

o adds support for ratings

o adds Wikipedia lookups for artists

o adds support for lyrics lookups

o adds encoding queue for CD rips

o better handles multiple CD drives

o adds support  
for m4a files

o adds some Konqueror integrations

o better support for minimized/system tray operation

For more details,  
see the documentation files in /usr/share/doc/ lsongs directory

Security Fixes:

*

Applied KDE Security  
patch http://www.frsirt.com/english/advisories/2006/0265

Hardware Requirements:

The minimum hardware requirements for running Linspire Five-O Version  
5.1.xxx are as follows:

*

PC with 800MHz  
processor (1Ghz recommended)  
*

128 MB RAM (256  
recommended)*  
*

Hard drive (4GB of  
free disk space recommended)  
*

Super VGA (1024 x  
768) or higher resolution video card and monitor (3-D graphics  
accelerator card for some games, screen savers, etc.)  
*

CD-ROM or DVD drive  
*

Keyboard &  
Mouse  
*

Linspire-compatible  
sound card and speakers or headphones**  
*

Linspire-compatible  
56 Kbps hardware modem, cable modem, or DSL modem  
*

Ethernet card for  
Internet/LAN connectivity**

* Systems with shared video may experience problems running with only  
128 MB RAM in Linspire Five-0

Known Issues:

*

No Reiser 4 support,  
you can&#8217;t update to 5.1 if you are using Reiser 4.  
*

Atmel, Ralink  
failure when encryption is enabled.  
*

Following wireless  
cards do not work on resume

o ACX, Atheros, Atmel, Prism  
*

Basic support for  
Alps touchpad, we don&#8217;t support configurable scrolling or tapping.  
*

Juno Dialer client  
will disappear after connected to Internet.  
*

Kppp will not  
connect to the Internet after using Juno/NetZero dialer.  
*

Kernel IRQ errors on  
some new motherboard models.  
*

fglrx (Official ATI)  
drivers show neon/flashing colors on monitors during boot, and  
extremely distorted shutdown screens on some cards.  
* Nvidia/ATI official drivers still wont  
allow hibernation

* No &#8216;eject cd&#8217; splashscreen after  
install on some machines that have newer ATI Video Cards, and VIA  
on-board video.

* No support for some nForce4 soundchip.

* External monitor switching on laptops  
breaks mouse cursor display on machines with Intel 915 or does not work  
at all.

* Lphoto displays only half of the  
images during a slide show on machines have I810 video.  
* There is no version of Win4Lin  
available for Five-0 V2 yet! If you must have Win4Lin functionality  
then we recommend that you continue to use Linspire 5.0.59 or 5.0.347.  
*

DVD playback may be  
distorted on some newer SIS video chipset.

FAQ:

* For updated FAQs please visit  
www.linspire.com/updatefaq

Please post all feedback at http://www.linspire.com/isofeedback

Thanks  
-OS Engineering Team

[Креирај тему форума везану за овај текст](https://linuxo.org/nova-tema-na-forumu/?se_pid=1127)