---
author: gandalf
date: "2007-11-16T07:22:38Z"
excerpt: <p>Iza&scaron;la je nova verzija Nero-e, programa za prženje, za Linux platformu.
  <strong>Verzija 3.0.2.1</strong> je dotupna za 32 i 64 bitne sisteme (i .rpm i.deb
  paketi su dostupni).<br /><br /><em><strong>Trial version download:</strong></em><br
  />http://www.nero.com/eng/downloads-linux3-trial.php</p>
guid: https://forum.linuxo.org/2007/11/16/nero-linux-3-0-2-1/
id: 1926
tc-thumb-fld:
- a:2:{s:9:"_thumb_id";b:0;s:11:"_thumb_type";s:10:"attachment";}
title: Nero Linux 3.0.2.1
url: /nero-linux-3-0-2-1/
---
Iza&scaron;la je nova verzija Nero-e, programa za prženje, za Linux platformu. **Verzija 3.0.2.1** je dotupna za 32 i 64 bitne sisteme (i .rpm i.deb paketi su dostupni).

_**Trial version download:**_  
http://www.nero.com/eng/downloads-linux3-trial.php

<!--break-->

Nova verzija donosi ni&scaron;ta posebno novo,uglavnom su to razne dopune i popravke već postojećih mogućnosti.

<u>&nbsp;Vi&scaron;e o tome ispod:</u>

_**Changelog:**_

_New features:_

&bull; The 'Properties' dialog for files and folders now supports multiple selection.

_Feature updates:_

&bull; The new kernel pata_xxx SCSI emulation drivers are now fully supported, and the burn engine has been updated to use them correctly.  
&bull; The DVD ISO images burning process has been fixed. No weird speed or burn process that never ends should occur.  
&bull; Added some additional information to the preview widget in the 'Open compilation' and 'Open Image' dialog box. The user is now able to get some properties of the selected compilation/image.  
&bull; When loading a compilation with non-existing items, a warning dialog box will inform the user about it.  
&bull; Added some more pre-burn checks:  
o for data discs, mode 1 is selected for any medium type other than CD  
o for CD EXTRA compilation: at least one audio track should be present  
&bull; The item duplication now works correctly and does not delete the original item anymore.  
&bull; When ripping an audio track, the '/' character is automatically replaced by '_' for the output file name.  
&bull; The 'Disc Info' dialog output for DVD-RW is now fixed.  
&bull; The Japanese manual has been updated.  
&bull; The date chooser widget now contains 'Ok' and 'Cancel' buttons to be a little bit more user-friendly.  
&bull; The splashscreen is now correctly centered with all window managers  
&bull; Some keyboard accelerators have been added to the 'Encode Files' dialog.

_Patches:_

&bull; The 'Data' button of the Mixed-Mode/CD EXTRA compilation editor is now correctly working.  
&bull; Fully erasing a disc on an IDE internal device with new kernels is now working.  
&bull; The 'Eject the disc when the erase is complete' option is now working correctly.  
&bull; Fixed a memory leak within the 'Erase Settings' dialog.  
&bull; The direct connection to FreeDB servers now works like a charm.  
&bull; The re-sampling of audio file when creating audio CD out of it is now working properly.  
&bull; The 'Properties' dialog for files and folders is now counting the directory items and size correctly.  
&bull; The 'Info' tab of the mixed-mode and CD EXTRA compilations in the 'New Compilation' dialog now show the correct size.  
&bull; The data part of mixed-mode and CD EXTRA compilations can now be correctly re-burned.  
&bull; Avoid application crash when loading a compilation with non-existing directory references.&nbsp;

[Креирај тему форума везану за овај текст](https://linuxo.org/nova-tema-na-forumu/?se_pid=1926)